------ Bits and pieces not part of anything... yet perhaps ------

[comment]: <> (this is part of the decentralized approach)
We live predominantly in a society of centralized control which if you know the structure, it looks like a pyrimid where
it's possible to real the whole world by a handful of people.

creating other alternatives for the body of society to depend on to stay informed on what's happening globally.

[comment]: <> (this is part of the decentralized approach)

Decentralized approach - just a necessary benefit


[comment]: <> (More of the decentralized approach section)

[comment]: <> (More of the decentralized approach section)

We are moving into an era of truth and those who have been untruthful to one another fear, for they will be exposed.

------ Bits and pieces not part of anything... yet perhaps ------

### Preface

We now live in a world where the abuse of power is pervasive. Putin forcing 18-year-age children to war against a
brotherly country and Ukraine restricting all men from the age of 18-60 from leaving the country, the censoring free
speech of large tech corporations behind the mask of cancel culture, an infringement of bodily autonomy through vaccine
mandates, centralized money and attempts to ban decentralized currencies under the name of "regulation", the control of
narratives through mainstream media, legal tax evasion by the powerful left unpunished and posing threats of
imprisonment if one chooses to evade taxes. Ultimately it's a governmental system made to keep the rich rich and the
poor poor of which was initially created to serve the people and not vise-versa.

The governments and large corporations of today are mostly centralized. You have to blindly trust that whatever they are
responsible for they will do right by you. With the instance of the government, you just have to simply trust that your
tax dollars are utilized properly, you have to trust that the dollar isn’t intentionally devalued by the deliberate
printing of money and you have to trust that the information gathered by corporates and governments isn’t leaked or sold
or used against you. It's false to think that a password prevent others from accessing personal accounts and information
when the database where which all your data is stored is accessible to the higher ups in those companies. How could
these people that hold that master keys to our data be held accountable when selling this data is so easy. It's
completely untraceable if all that's needed is to be copied and pasted unlike tangible goods where if it has been stolen
you would know it's gone. You can’t know who has what kind of data about you and thus is so dangerous to entrust the
collection of your data to other people. After all, if they didn’t profit for it, they wouldn’t collect it and if your data wasn't profitable
apps like facebook wouldn't be free. Where it's free you are the product. The most troubling thing about giving your data to
something is how they’ll use it. Uber’s ‘god mode’ for example, is a feature that shows the location of all uber riders
and drivers. It sounds like it could be useful for good but with all power, it’s a double edged sword. It’s not the
sword that inflicts evil until others, it’s the welder that swings it at those for his own personal good. Why would
Facebook, YouTube, or the government care if they aren’t held accountable. It’s been said that data is power in the form
of the phrase ‘knowledge is power’, in other words if you know, you have the power to change and control whatever you
know. That explains why we are so addicted to the products produced by the system. It pulls the strings behind the
curtain.

A college degree only signifies that you are submissible/submitable/controllable to top to bottom hierarchy approach,
that's it other than that, all that's needed is that you can do the job. The chain of command, top management, middle
management and the people that actually do the job - people don't need to be managed, they are capable of and deserve
individual sovereignty. The many have to vote a few to "lead" a country but to where, why lead, I ain't no sheep!
The point is that this mentality to impose and adhere to a top to bottom hierarchical structure of control is deeply
ingrained in society, and the result of careless submission of control to authority is tyranny and tyranny war and
conflict from the "need to breath"; the human right to freedom.

### The decentralized approach

Centralization of power has prevailed in all aspects of life but now alternative systems are emerging.

An anonymous organization or person that went by the name Satoshi Nakamoto created Bitcoin, an alternative currency to
the centralized controlled fiat currency. He knew there were inherent flaws to centralized systems. The following he
wrote in a forum while developing Bitcoin.
*"The root problem with conventional currency is all the trust that's required to make it work. The central bank must be
trusted not to debase the currency, but the history of fiat currencies is full of breaches of that trust."*
After the creation of Bitcoin, Vitalik Buterin extrapolated on the underlying technology of Bitcoin of which was called
the blockchain to create a decentralized and trustless virtual machine. The idea was make a platform to host code that
would be public and immutable so that the code also known as smart contracts were to be available to view on a public
ledger of which all peers of the network had a copy of and thus making the smart contract code transparent. Layer 2
solutions to better its usability and other implementation of the so-called virtual machines came after. This innovation
of a virtual machine serves as a base for DAO (decentralized autonomous organizations) and dapps (decentralized
applications with the business logic hosted in the virtual machine). DAOs and dapps is web3 of which the hype should be
all about but instead we have NFTs and crypto-trading fads. What's better, a shiny new toy or potentially not needing to
pay taxes in the future. ... There are already protocols like Tornado Cash and private blockchains like the Secret
Network through which the transactions could be done. No governmental attempt to enforce taxes would be impossible as it
was with marajhuana when it was illegal.

The underlying technology of web3 is the blockchain. The blockchain came about through the creation of Bitcoin of which
was an alternative currency to fiat currencies.

The ability to create a facebook, youtube that's decetralized will make it so much better. Also, DAOs are essentially
governments and of which governments could be made. Code would be law.

It's important to make a note that the blockchain hadn't promised to bring new features and shiny new things for people
to indulge in such as NFTs and crypto trading fads. The web3 is a change from a centralized approach of which such
entities must be trusted to a decentralized approach where important business logic is immutable and publicly viewable.

The underlying idea of the web3 technology aimed to achieve to solve that to remove the necessity to simply trust
centralized monopolies that they would act in accordance with the best interests of others at heart.

[comment]: <> (comment)
"Governments are good at cutting off the heads of a centrally controlled networks..., but pure P2P networks... seem to
be holding their own." - Satoshi Nakamoto - If built publicly then there's no chance of shutting it down. I have a
feeling governments wouldn't like people communing with one another without let allow people who from other nations.
It's hard to keep a nation independent if the people in it move between each periodically. It's like, what are you
independent to?
[comment]: <> (comment)

### The blockchain solves two dilemmas

The control of money(link to video explaining) by creating a system where money cannot be minted by anyone individual,
there be a consensus for a change to happen, neither can it shut down even if it’s outlawed. The products of this
intention is bitcoin and to some extent ethereum. Truly secure data unlike how it is now where your data is accessible
by the higher ups at the companies you entrust it with.

**We’ll be expounding on the second dilemma**

Traditionally a central database was used to store data. Though you could have a mechanism to lock your data from others
tempering with it, and restricting the sharing of it, the problem is that you couldn’t trust the code that would be that
because it’s inaccessible to the user and would have to trust the companies by their words. So, this mechanism doesn’t
exist. Furthermore, what prevents companies to persist your data even after you removed it through their user interface?
You don’t have permission to view their logic that handles your data. Note: It’s alright to have a concealed codebase
but when people that work on it come and go and a lot of money and power comes into it then you don’t know who you’re
entrusting. You just have to hope they follow the ideals they say to be.

The alternative is an immutable codebase which the blockchain gives an opportunity for. Ethereum is the leading
blockchain and with already many layer 2 solutions built for scalability… Explain how ethereum achieves immutability and
what it means in removing the middleman.

We are moving towards an age of decentralized autonomous organizations (DAO), these are what are considered as dapps. To
achieve sharing data without entrusting “authorities” to keep it secure, there must be a storage mechanism where only
you have the ability to modify data and have it be decentralized. There are systems that already do that. IPFS for
instance. The challenge is to have your data easily accessible by you, that’s why a lot of frontend needs to be
developed, and not be tranced by any program to collect your data easily (only having the human manual work search by
name and human collecting your data). The solution of creating this system where no service has access to your data
firstly has to have the code be public and secondly the data must circulate in that environment without it copying your
data or organizing it in a way that’s not necessary but to discriminate against you.

Ofcourse, there’s no way to prevent people from copying your data just as much as there’s no way to prevent people from
taking a screenshot of your information or web scrapping for more sophisticated and automated copying online. However,
the difference is that tracing your data will be a hard manual task to do and scaling to handling of tracing and storing
a large mass of people’s data would be practically impossible. At the moment, a mass database of our information is
stored already for our convenience of features like the kind that Facebook and Instagram provides but at the expense of
already having the world’s private data at their finger tips. Another difference is that there would be no way of
proving that the copied data is true and thus renders the seller of your data useless. Ultimately, it’s you sharing data
and only you being able to validate the authenticity of ownership through asymmetric encryption. If you can validate it
with a private key, then it’s yours. This will prevent others from making copies of your profile somewhere down the
line. Having a system where your content that contains your image like videos and photos can validate the authenticity
of the ownership of your content to give as a certificate of validation. Those accounts that fail to validate get
removed from the autonomous system. This is Python, machine learning and AI. It has to be free from the hands of any one
individual, other words, there can’t be any group of people pulling the strings even if it’s best that someone does
because it defeats the purpose of a trustless system. (well, gives me a reason to learn machine learning, AI and lower
level languages later down the road since a Facebook replica is what I’m building).

[comment]: <> (### Here are a few clips of the new paradigm shift)

[comment]: <> (- Full disclosure. These clips are not mine.)


Now that the tangible real world and theoretical is out of the way, we’ll get technical with how these autonomous
systems around our data will be built.

### Why spend time and resources to build another Facebook and YouTube?

Because people value privacy so wherever there's a need there's an opportunity, that's where venture capitalist and
entrepreneurs, the pioneers of new ideas will be.

### The technical side that needs to be built Can it be stopped?

People have been wanting the alternative to the current ways that the world operates by. Try to outlaw it, suppress it,
demonize it but nothing stops people from getting what they want. Eventually the dam of desire will bust open. The more
people want it the stronger you have to build that damn. If you can’t beat them join them. Why go against the grain?

### Why go through all the trouble of building this?

Why not, it’s fun, it’s right, it’s a loving thing to do. Unless you deem this world to be meaningless then get ready to
be enlightened!😁
